

passport – a small official book, issued by a national government, that allows a
person to travel to other countries and return to one’s own country
* Mojo likes to look at all of the stamps in his passport to remember the places
where he has traveled.

application – a form that requests information, used when one wants to have or
get something, or wants to join or participate in something
* How long does it take to fill out the application for a driver’s license?

social security number – a unique nine-digit number in the form of ###-##-
####, given to U.S. citizens and people who have legal permission to live in the
U.S.
* Please write your social security number on the top of each page in your tax
return.

evidence – proof; a written document that supports what one has said or claimed
* After Terese got married, she carried around a copy of her marriage certificate
as evidence that her last name had been changed.

citizenship – belonging legally to a particular country
* When an American gives birth to a child in another country, that child has dual
citizenship, meaning that he or she is an American citizen and a citizen of the
other country at the same time.

to submit – to officially give or send something to a person or organization,
especially when that person or organization will review and/or approve it
* Please submit any comments or suggestions to the manager.

birth certificate – an official piece of paper that states one’s full name, when and
where one was born, and the names of one’s parents.
* When Marguerite looked at her birth certificate, she was shocked to realize that
she had been born before her parents were married.

naturalization certificate – an official piece of paper showing when one became
a U.S. citizen
* Zola was very proud to become a U.S. citizen, so she hung her naturalization
certificate in her living room where everyone could see it.


Consular Report of Birth Abroad – an official piece of paper stating that an
individual was born outside of the United States and that one or both of his or her
parents is a U.S. citizen
* Kati has a Consular Report of Birth Abroad, because she was born in Mongolia
while her American parents were working at the U.S. Embassy there.

document – an official piece of paper that provides information about something
* When you travel, make sure you keep all your documents safe, including your
passport, your itinerary, and a list of the vaccinations you’ve received.

identification / ID – documents that prove who someone is, listing the person’s
full name and often a photograph and information about his or her age and
physical appearance
* The bank requires at least two pieces of identification before it will cash
anyone’s check.

valid driver’s license – a small card that shows one has permission to drive in a
particular state
* It is illegal to drive without a valid driver’s license.

military – related to the armed forces, navy, army, air force, and marines and the
people who work and serve in those organizations
* How many of this year’s high school graduates are choosing to go into military
service?

passport photo – a small photograph of a person’s head, with a specific length
and width, used for the photograph in one’s passport
* You can’t use this as a passport photo, because you weren’t looking directly at
the camera.

identical – exactly the same, without any differences
* The sisters’ voices sound identical over the phone, so I never know which girl
I’m speaking with.









